# Introduction
This directory contains code to run the Ultimatum Game experiments. 

# Setup
All code is developed with Python 3.9.13. We recommend creating a virtual environment based on the `requirements.txt` file.

# Prompts Used in the Paper
The exact prompts used in the paper can be generated by `ultimatum_prompts.py`. You can print out prompts by running the following:

```python ultimatum_prompts.py --condition [low_high_percentage, low_high_payoff, inequity_aversion]```

Add the `--shorter` flag to generate a single prompt followed by an explanation. 

```python ultimatum_prompts.py --condition [low_high_percentage, low_high_payoff, inequity_aversion] --shorter```

# Training Models
We generate our prompts in a batched manner, ask the LLM to annotate our prompts, and save the LLM's answers. We then use those answers as reward signals when training an RL agent. The LLM's responses can be found in the `lm_responses` and `lm_responses_shorter` directories for the 10-example version and the 1-example + explanation version respectively. 

To get the LLM responses for the rewards function check on the ask_lm.py the code for running.
You should first enter you open ai api_key:
 ```export OPENAI_API_KEY={your_api_key}```
 In the python script insert the condition and the treshold and then run:
 ```python3 ask_lm.py```

To evaluate the LLM result only, run the following:

```python3 ultimatum.py --operation evaluate_llm --condition [low_high_percentage, low_high_payoff, inequity_aversion] --model gpt3```

Add the `--shorter` flag to evaluate when the LLM is prompted with 1 example + explanation. 

```python3 ultimatum.py --operation evaluate_llm --condition [low_high_percentage, low_high_payoff, inequity_aversion] --model gpt3 --shorter```


# SL Baseline
Code to train the SL baseline reward function for the 10-example version and the 1-example version can be found in `sl.ipynb` and `sl_shorter.ipynb` respectively.

To train an RL agent with SL trained on 10 examples and evaluate the RL agent's trained behavior run the following:

```python3 ultimatum.py --operation run_lr_agent --condition [low_high_percentage, low_high_payoff, inequity_aversion] --model sl```

Add the `--shorter` flag to evaluate and train an RL agent when the SL trained with 1 example.

```python3 ultimatum.py --operation run_lr_agent --condition [low_high_percentage, low_high_payoff, inequity_aversion] --model sl --shorter```

To train an RL agent when  LLM prompted with 10 examples and evaluate the RL agent's trained behavior run the following:

```python3 ultimatum.py --operation run_lr_agent --condition [low_high_percentage, low_high_payoff, inequity_aversion] --model gpt3```

Add the `--shorter` flag to evaluate and train an RL agent when the LLM is prompted with 1 example + explanation. 

```python3 ultimatum.py --operation run_lr_agent --condition [low_high_percentage, low_high_payoff, inequity_aversion] --model gpt3 --shorter```
